there are currently 44 different
dividend stocks that pay a dividend
every single month so I thought why not
test every single one of them in this
video I'm going to break down for you
all 44 monthly dividend stocks we're
going to look at historical results for
both Total return as well as dividend
income over the past year and the past 5
Years and we're going to find out which
ones perform the best and does their
dividend yield at all translate to Total
[Music]
returns
what's up you guys welcome back to the
average Joe investor Channel this
extremely detailed spreadsheet along
with all the other spreadsheets I make
are available to you as a member of the
average Joe investor patreon Community
all the spreadsheets access to my
portfolio and my income strategies and
depending on which tier you choose
access to the average Jo investor
Discord Community you can also support
the channel and all the content I put
out for as little as $2 a month if you
want to learn more check out the link
down in the description below Okay so
we've got monthly dividend stocks here
every single one of the monthly dividend
stocks out there currently paying a
dividend every single month full
awareness here there were a few that
just did not have a five-year history I
excluded those and the dividend yield
ranges widely on these dividend stocks
to as little as
2.41% and as high as
21.45% before we jump into the results
let me be very clear on the underlying
data for every single one of these
stocks as you can see down here on the
bottom of the spreadsheet I went and
captured all of the price and dividend
data for the past year and the past 5
years and the assumption is that we did
a lumpsum investment at the beginning of
the period whether one year or five
years of
$10,000 and then during that time frame
we did not make any additional
contributions and we reinvested all
dividends along the way here are the
dividend stocks that we looked at
starting with the highest dividend yield
down to the
lowest
all right what we'll do is we'll look
first at the 2023 results both for
dividend income and portfolio balance
we'll take a look at the chart then
we'll look at the 2019 through 2023 or
5year historical results both for
dividend income and portfolio balance
we'll look at the chart and we'll
identify any Trends and any key
takeaways let's take a look at the 2023
results first off let's take a look at
dividend income these these were the top
five dividend in comparers for 2023
amongst the 44 stocks number one was
Gladstone investment $
23567 Eagle Point Credit was number two
at
19662 oxford Square Capital
85943 Orchid Island Capital
1825 and Ellington Financial 1527 the
five worst stocks on this list for
dividend income for 2023 were Global
Water Resources peran Bas and royalty
trust Gladstone land us Global Investors
and agree realy now let's take a look at
portfolio balance the top five for
portfolio balance we number one Italia
tobano olding at
16764 again we start with $10,000 number
two banko Pesco number three SL green
realy number four epr properties and
number five pennant Park Investment
corporation the five worst monthly
dividend stocks based on portfolio
balance for 2023 were premum VI royalty
Trust San Juan Basin royalty trust peran
Basin royalty trust permrock royalty
trust and armor residential Reit
Incorporated all of them lost money in
fact there were others that lost money
too in fact nearly half of them here the
rest of these over here also lost money
nearly half here's a look at the 2023
Total return results for all 44 of the
stocks and where they landed a lot of
the stocks here were just right in the
middle of the pack here somewhere
between I'd say $9,000 and $122,000 we
had a few outliers up here this one
right here itu also in yellow BBD and
then light blue SLG and some here that
really underperformed at the bottom
especially here in Black had a little
bit of resurgence at the end that was
drf down here in green sjt and lastly
pvl those are the 2023 results but let's
take a longer and I think more informed
view backward we can't base our analysis
and our investment choices off of one
year even 5 years could be Too Short
when you think of the long-term nature
of investing but 5 years still gives us
more context than one year so have you
ever Googled your own name and then been
shocked to see all of your personal
information on those public listing
sites now I've got a pretty unique last
name there's very few of my name
floating around out there and it was
very disconcerting to see my name photos
of me my family and links to my personal
information just out there on the web
the reality is that data Brokers are
making a fortune selling your
information to robocallers spammers and
others who want to learn more about you
like where you live and sensitive
information about your family that is
where today's video sponsor comes in Ora
is the solution AA can identify data
Brokers exposing your information and
submit opt-out requests on your behalf
Brokers are legally required to remove
your information if you ask them to but
they make it super hard to do let Aura
handle it for you AA also does so much
more to protect you and your family from
online threats that you can't see it's
really easy to set up so you don't have
to download several different apps to
get things like parental controls
antivirus VPN password management
identity theft Insurance and more you
get everything at one affordable price
guys everybody needs these tools so use
Aura and pay less let Aura do the hard
work of keeping you safe online so you
can focus on other tasks with peace of
mind you can either let people continue
to exploit and profit off your personal
information or you can go to aura.com
aage Joe for a free 2E trial that's also
also linked down in the description
below thank you to orth for sponsoring
this video so let's take a look at the
five-e results for dividend income and
portfolio balance first off dividend
income here the top five stocks for
dividend income over that 5-year period
were number one sjt number two Gladstone
Investment corporation number three
permianville royalty trust number four
Eagle Point Credit and number five
Sabine royalty trust the five worst
dividend stocks for dividend income
during this period were armor
residential Reit Bank oesco global Water
Resources it unano holding and grouo AAL
oxion evales all right next let's take a
look at portfolio balance the top
performing for portfolio bounce over the
past 5 years amongst these 44 were
number one permium Bas and royalty trust
worth 30,000 saan royalty trust worth 26
us Global Investors worth 25 Gladstone
investment worth 25 and Cross Timbers
royalty trust worth 24 in fact you see
as we can bring in the results for 2023
that glad Investment corporation really
performed well in both 2023 and for the
past 5 years based on income and really
well over the past 5 years for portfolio
balance and it was also positive for the
record here for portfolio balance in
2023 we also saw right here Saban
royalty trust performed really well for
both income and portfolio balance over
the past 5 years interestingly enough
though when you look at per and Bas and
royalty it performed well over the past
5 years but it had a really bad 2023 the
five worst performers over the past 5
years for portfolio balance were number
one armor residential the worst number
two bank oesco number three groupo of
alionas number four dream office Real
Estate Investment Trust and number five
Orchid Island Capital you can see that
Orchid Island lost money over the past 5
years and also lost money in 2023 and we
had some significant crossover here for
dividend income and portfolio balance
these three investments just performed
really bad for both overall value and
income and what you'll also see if we
sort sort by dividend yield okay largest
dividend yields here we had some that
also had pretty good portfolio balance
and others that just were really
terrible like Orchid Island right here
had good income and they have a good
current yield but man look at this
portfolio balance terrible same thing
right here for armor residential
currently yielding 15% but their income
was terrible and their portfolio balance
was terrible as well not a great
solution based on at least historical
results you also don't see great results
for dividend yield here for Global Water
Resources and Italian Bank
they both have dividend income that's
terrible and their yields are not good
either so it's like why would you choose
these as monthly dividend stocks if
you're not going to have a good yield
that's the big consideration here here's
a look at the fiveyear results for the
chart I did um winow it down a little
bit here because some of these went up
and then back down again in red and in
white popped up really high during the 5
years but came back down to earth
especially here in red which was GW
there were quite a few that were just
right here in the bunch and some that
really drastically unperformed right
like right down here in green which was
ARR terrible performance over the past
year and 5 years you've also got here a
lot of them under the 10,000 that you
initially invested grow here performed
really well came back down to earth and
ended up being one of the top three or
four right here you had PBT here in
white which performed really well over
the past 5 years the idea of investing
in monthly dividend stocks means that
you are somebody that's incomm minded
right now but that doesn't necessarily
mean any of these Investments are a good
choice for you it's a starting point for
you to discover hey how these perform
form Med over the past year past 5 years
both with respect to portfolio balance
and income and then decide do any of
these deserve my money or my better off
potentially owning quality dividend
stocks that don't necessarily pay
monthly but pay quarterly or potentially
some ETFs or even maybe selling covered
calls regardless of what you decide to
do hopefully you found some value in
this video make sure to leave your two
cents down in the comments below it is
my goal to respond to as many comments
as possible on the day I post a new
video that's all I got for you guys have
a great rest of your day and thanks for
watching